NEWS                                                            -*- outline -*-
----

Welcome to sbuild 0.62.5.  Please read these release notes carefully.

Full installation instructions are provided in the INSTALL file.  The
README file also contains more specific notes regarding building and
configuration.

* Major changes in 0.62.5:

  None.

* Major changes in 0.62.4:

  1) The distribution in the build summary is coloured yellow if it
     does not match the distribution in the changelog.  This is to
     indicate that there may be a potential problem, such as
     potentially uploading a package intended for experimental to
     unstable by building for unstable by accident.  Additionally,
     lintian test results are also coloured to highlight success and
     failure.  Log colouring may now be disabled using $log_colour.

  2) sbuild only permits building one source package at once.
     Previously sbuild would allow building of more than one package
     in a single invocation.  Making this change means that the exit
     status will always be the status of the build rather than the
     last build, and it also means the logging is simplified and may
     be started earlier.

  3) Added new directory /var/lib/sbuild/build to hold build trees for
     sbuild when building.  This will be bind mounted on /build inside
     the chroot following an update to the schroot sbuild and buildd
     fstab configuration for schroot.  This saves significant amounts
     of space when using LVM snapshot chroots, and it also makes it
     easier to preserve build trees for failing builds when using
     snapshots.

  4) Extra environment variables to be set when running
     dpkg-buildpackage may now be set using $build_environment; these
     will supplement the existing environment (e.g. PATH,
     LD_LIBRARY_PATH).  These variables will not be subject to
     filtering with $environment_filter.

* Major changes in 0.62.3:

  1) The apt and internal resolvers will resolve some alternatives
     even when resolving alternative dependencies is disabled.  For
     relations involving the same package, the alternative will be
     permitted when the package names are the same for each
     alternative.  For example,
        foo (<< x) | foo (>= y) | bar
     will be reduced to
        foo (<< x) | foo (>= y)
     while
        foo | bar
     will be reduced to
        foo

  2) The sbuild-schroot wrapper has been removed.  This will be moved
     into the schroot package in its next release.

  3) The schroot "buildd" configuration profile has been moved to the
     schroot package itself.  This is due to being generated and being
     architecture-dependent, and sbuild being an arch-all package (the
     configuration would only be valid for the architecture sbuild was
     built on).

  4) A new option, "-j", has been added to allow parallel builds.

* Major changes in 0.62.2:

  1) New options --no-apt-clean, --no-apt-update, --no-apt-upgrade and
     --no-apt-distupgrade have been added to allow these actions to be
     disabled even when set as the default in the configuration.

  2) --keep-session is replaced by
     --purge-session=(always|successful|never).  This will allow the
     session to be purged for all, successful and no builds,
     respectively.

  3) $purge_session uses the same purge modes as $purge_build_deps and
     $purge_build_directory, rather than a boolean value.

  4) Log filtering may be disabled using $log_filter = 0 in the
     configuration.  The replacement text is now also surrounded with
     "«" and "»" so that strings such as CHROOT and BUILDDIR can't be
     confused with any actual appearance of the same string in the
     build log.

  5) Log colouring may be disabled using $log_colour = 0 in the
     configuration.

* Major changes in 0.62.1:

  1) Fixed security issue in the sbuild-schroot wrapper program which
     did not enforce sbuild group membership in order to allow users
     to access the chroots as user sbuild.

* Major changes in 0.62.0:

  1) 'apt' is now the default build dependency resolver.  Users should
     not see any significant changes compared with the old 'internal'
     resolver.  Please note that you may need to generate a GPG key
     for the local archive created for dependency package
     installation, if one does not already exist; see sbuild-update
     (--keygen) for further details.

  2) The 'internal' build dependency resolver is deprecated.  It is
     not recommended for future use, and will be removed once it is no
     longer used by the buildd infrastructure.  Please use the 'apt'
     resolver as a drop-in replacement.

  3) The 'aptitude' build dependency resolver will, unlike 'apt' and
     'internal', consider alternative dependencies by default, rather
     than only using the first alternative.  This is intended to both
     preserve backward compatibility, and make the 'aptitude' resolver
     the preferred choice for more complex situations, such as
     building for experimental.

  4) sbuild.conf and buildd.conf are now automatically generated from
     the help text and defaults in the source code.  This means that
     the examples will always be syntactically correct, the help text
     will always be current, and the defaults will always match the
     defaults in the source code.

  5) All of the allowed values in sbuild.conf and buildd.conf are now
     documented in the new sbuild.conf(5) and buildd.conf(5) manual
     pages, respectively.  Like sbuild.conf, this is entirely
     generated from the source code, so will always match the defaults
     for the same sbuild version.

  6) Non-scalar (or reference) types are deprecated in sbuild.conf.
     This is because it is not possible to tell the difference between
     an empty and an undefined value.  Values using array or hash
     types should use the equivalent array reference or hash
     reference, which have been supported for some time.  The old
     style array and hash values will remain supported for now, but
     will be removed in a future release.

  7) sbuild now performs an apt dist-upgrade at the start of each
     build by default, rather than an upgrade.  This is to reduce the
     amount of manual administration required to keep chroots up to
     date, and is not much more risky than upgrade in this context.

  8) A new option, --keep-session, has been added.  This prevents the
     automatic removal of session-managed snapshot chroots.
     Previously, snapshots would not be deleted if purging of the
     build directory or build dependencies was disabled, but this was
     not always desirable, hence it is now configurable separately.

  9) Internally, building and other actions in the chroot are
     performed by the 'sbuild' system user, where previously the user
     invoking sbuild would be used instead.  The aim of this change is
     to separate privileges to increase security and reduce the chance
     of accidental or deliberate tampering of the build environment.
     While the latter is not addressed by these changes, this will be
     taken care of during future architectural changes.

 10) In order to handle errors more robustly, the build code now has
     initial support for exception handling.  Normal operation will
     not be affected, but fatal errors may be logged in a different
     order than seen previously.  Fatal errors will now be seen at the
     end of the build log, which should make it easier to spot
     problems.

 11) sbuild now always cleans up fully when receiving a termination
     signal such as SIGINT or SIGTERM.  Note that you may need to wait
     while the cleanup actions are performed, or the current task is
     completed prior to initiating cleanup.  When running
     interactively, hitting Ctrl-C will sent SIGINT to the entire
     process group; doing this while apt-get or aptitude are running
     will potentially leave dpkg in an inconsistent state, so aborting
     at this point is not recommended.  Sending a SIGTERM to the
     sbuild process will always work cleanly.

 12) Long paths such as the chroot location and the build directory
     inside the chroot are now filtered in the build log and replaced
     with small, constant, abbreviations.  This makes the build logs
     comparable between builds with tools such as diff(1).

 13) Logging messages have been improved, and important messages are
     now coloured when running interactively (does not affect log
     files).  Errors, warnings and informational messages are coloured
     red, yellow and green, respectively.  Build status is coloured
     green for success and red for all failure conditions.

 14) The sbuild package build directory created inside the chroot now
     has a reduced name length.  It's now /build/packagename-XXXXXX
     where XXXXXX are random characters.  This helps reduce the chance
     of hitting path length restrictions on some architectures,
     particularly when using sockets.

 15) Build log mails are now compressed and mailed in MIME format by
     default, together with a copy of the .changes file.  The old
     behaviour (plain mailing of uncompressed logs) may be restored by
     setting $mime_build_log_mails=0 in the configuration, and
     compression may also be disabled in the MIME mails by setting
     $compress_build_log_mails=0.  Note that it is no longer possible
     to send compressed log mails unless MIME mailing is enabled.

 16) The wanna-build database has been removed entirely.  This part of
     the sbuild package was not used, and was not maintained for some
     time.  Users wishing to use wanna-build should investigate the
     version in the wanna-build.git repository used by the Debian
     autobuilding infrastructure.  This version is actively maintained
     and in continual use.


* Major changes in 0.61.0:

  1) The apt and aptitude build dependency resolvers now use only the
     first alternative in alternative dependencies.  The other
     alternatives are stripped out entirely.  This makes the apt and
     aptitude resolvers behave exactly like the internal resolver.
     Note that this is configurable with the $resolve_alternatives
     option, so alternative resolving may be re-enabled with this
     option if desired.  This is useful for e.g. backports, but not
     for unstable where the strict consistency and reproducibility
     offered by only using the first alternative is required.

* Major changes in 0.60.9:

  1) The architecture specified with --arch (defaulting to the host
     system architecture) must match the chroot architecture.  This
     was previously allowed to be superceded by the chroot
     architecture.  This change is to avoid any abiguity regarding the
     host/build architecture for the package being built.

* Major changes in 0.60.8:

  None.

* Major changes in 0.60.7:

  None.

* Major changes in 0.60.6:

  1) sbuild now sanitises the environment when running external
     commands such as dpkg-buildpackage.  The allowed environment
     variables may be specified with $environment_filter in the
     configuration.  Currently, various DEB* and *FLAGS* environment
     variables are allowed, similar to debuild's behaviour.

  2) sbuild now has a testsuite to do basic regression testing.  By
     default, only Perl syntax is checked.  If configured with
     --enable-chroot-checks, it will run the various sbuild-* helpers
     and sbuild itself to build a small variety of different
     packages.  These are tested in an "unstable" chroot, which must
     be present as a prerequisite for running the tests.

  3) The apt and aptitude build dependency resolvers now use a
     temporary local apt archive for installation of the dependency
     packages.  apt-get would previously try to remove the dependency
     package under certain conditions (apt-get -f install would force
     removal), whereas using a real archive to install from prevents
     this.

  4) sbuild-update has a new option, --keygen.  This generated a GPG
     key for signing local apt archives.  The key will be generated
     automatically on first use, but if entropy on the build system is
     scarce, sbuild-update can generate it by hand at a more
     convenient time, or on another system.

  5) sbuild no longer generates the files REDO and SBUILD-REDO-DUMPED
     upon receiving a termination signal.  These were no longer used
     in buildd mode, and were only useful in a buildd context.

* Major changes in 0.60.5:

  1) A new resolver, 'apt', has been added.  Like the aptitude
     resolver, this installs a dependency package to install build
     dependencies and remove build conflicts, but uses apt-get rather
     than aptitude.  This resolver is currently experimental and may
     not yet perform correctly under all circumstances.  Use at your
     own risk.

  2) It is now possible to run piuparts on the build packages with the
     new --run-piuparts option.

* Major changes in 0.60.4:

  1) The default dependency resolver has been reverted back to
     'internal' for the present.  'aptitude' will become the default
     again once it has had further testing.  Feedback regarding the
     'aptitude' resolver would be much appreciated.

* Major changes in 0.60.3:

  1) The aptitude resolver is now the default resolver.  Users wishing
     to continue to use the old internal resolver should set
     $build_dep_resolver='internal' in their configuration.  The
     aptitude resolver is far superior to the internal resolver,
     because it can correctly resolve complex alternative and virtual
     packages in build dependencies where the internal resolver would
     fail.

  2) The aptitude resolver is now entirely separate from the internal
     resolver, and greatly simplified.  All Build-Depends and
     -Conflicts are now passed directly to aptitude (with
     architecture-specific dependencies filtered out).  As before, a
     dummy dependency package is used to install and remove build
     dependencies and build-conflicts.

  3) The sbuild-clean program has been moved into sbuild-update, as
     for the other sbuild- helper programs.  The sbuild-* helper
     programs now take the sbuild chroot lock used by sbuild to
     prevent concurrent builds in the same chroot, making it safe to
     run the maintenance commands while builds are running (they will
     wait until the build has finished before making any changes).
     The sbuild-* helper programs now operate on source chroots, where
     available (for lvm-snapshot and btrfs-snapshot type chroots).

  4) The sbuild-createchroot program can now create tarballs from the
     created chroot, with gzip, bzip2, lzma and xz compression.  Use
     the new --make-sbuild-tarball option for this purpose.

  5) sbuild may now be used on an unpacked source directory, in a
     similar manner to debuild.  The directory will be packaged using
     'dpkg-source -b' prior to building.  If a source package or
     directory is not specified, sbuild will use the current working
     directory like debuild.

  6) Lintian may now be run after a package build with the
     --run-lintian option.

  7) External commands may now be run before and after a build and
     during chroot setup and cleanup.  These may be used to do
     additional setup and checking during a build, for example to run
     piuparts.

* Major changes in 0.60.2:

  1) Virtual packages may now be used in Build-Depends using the
     internal resolver.  This is very simple, and picks the first
     package providing the dependency in alphabetical order.  The
     aptitude resolver is rather more sophisticated, and should be
     used if this is insufficiently clever.

  2) Build-Conflicts are correctly removed and reinstalled, and sbuild
     can now remove packages which depend upon other packages, due to
     using "apt-get remove" in place of "dpkg --remove".

  3) Package build-dependency installation in now preceeded by
     installation of "core" dependencies (currently build-essential)
     and "essential" dependencies (essential packages listed in
     build-essential), to ensure a working build environment.  These
     should, of course, already be installed; this change is an
     additional consistency check to ensure the build environment is
     sane.

  4) schroot sessions may be preserved on failure (failure to build or
     failure to install build dependencies), to allow easier
     troubleshooting.

* Major changes in 0.60.1:

  1) Improvements in building of dpkg-source v3 source formats.

  2) sbuild includes a new option --no-source to disable building
     of source packages.  This is the reciprocal of the existing
     --source option.

* Major changes in 0.60.0:

  1) sbuild no longer defaults the distribution to "unstable", and
     requires setting by hand with --distribution unless configured in
     .sbuildrc.  This is to prevent accidental uploads to the wrong
     distribution.

  2) sbuild now lists all packages (including versions) installed in
     the build chroot in the package build log.  This may aid
     identifying problems with builds using buggy or outdated package
     versions.

  3) With a recent versions of man-db (>= 2.5.6-4), man-db will be
     configured not to rebuild its database during package
     installation and removal in the build chroot.

  4) sbuild has added new options to allow APT cleaning, upgrading and
     dist-upgrading of the build chroot, in addition to the existing
     updating option.

  5) buildd has been synched with the buildd code in use on the Debian
     buildd infrastructure, and is now in use on most, if not all,
     running buildds.  It has undergone extensive changes since the
     previous release, and is now suitable for production use.  Note
     that the packaged version of wanna-build is not yet ready for use
     with buildd.

  6) buildd no longer bind mounts /home into the chroot.

  7) buildd now handles all wanna-build interaction.  All sbuild
     wanna-build usage has been removed, including the
     --auto-give-back and --database options.

* Major changes in 0.59.0:

  1) The wanna-build options --no-propagation and
     --no-down-propagation have been removed.  These options no longer
     have any effect, and were only present for backward-compatibility
     with older versions of buildd.  buildd no longer uses these
     options, making it safe to remove them.

  2) The wanna-build configuration options used by buildd in
     buildd.conf have been renamed for better compatibility with future
     planned sbuild changes.  buildd.conf will require updating with the
     new option names:

     ┌───────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────────────┐
     │ old                   │ new                                 │
     ├───────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────────────┤
     │ $wanna_build_dbbase   │ $wanna_build_db_name                │
     │ $wanna_build_user     │ $wanna_build_db_user                │
     │ $ssh_user             │ $wanna_build_ssh_user               │
     │ $ssh_host             │ $wanna_build_ssh_host               │
     │ $ssh_socket           │ $wanna_build_ssh_socket             │
     │ @ssh_options          │ $wanna_build_ssh_options (arrayref) │
     └───────────────────────┴─────────────────────────────────────┘

  3) sbuild will set the "attempted" and "given-back" states for
     certain failures.  If wanna-build updates are configured with
     --database and --auto-give-back by buildd, it will set the
     "built" state on build completion, and "attempted" if the build
     failed.  As before, "given-back" will be set for most other
     failure conditions.

* Major changes in 0.58.6:

  None.

* Major changes in 0.58.5:

  None.

* Major changes in 0.58.4:

  None.

* Major changes in 0.58.3:

  1) The broken options --add-depends and --force-depends have been
     replaced by --add-depends, --add-conflicts, --add-depends-indep
     and --add-conflicts-indep.  These options each take a single
     dependency, using the same dependency syntax one would use in
     debian/control.

  2) The wanna-build configuration has been moved back to
     /etc/buildd/wanna-build.conf.  However, the option names have
     been renamed and your configuration will require updating.

  3) When reading configuration files, stricter checking is performed.
     If you see a "Global symbol "$x" requires explicit package
     name" error, then the option $x is not valid and should be
     removed from the configuration file indicated.

  4) The maintainer name no longer defaults to DEBEMAIL as in most
     cases the maintainer in the .dsc should be used.

* Major changes in 0.58.2:

  None.

* Major changes in 0.58.1:

  None.

* Major changes in 0.58.0:

  1) The configuration option @no_auto_upgrade, which was no longer
     used, has been removed.  To prevent packages being upgraded
     automatically, please use sbuild-hold.  See sbuild-hold(1).

  2) The configuration option $chroot_mode has been restored, allowing
     chroot access by both schroot (which remains the default) and
     sudo.

  3) A new configuration option $chroot_split has been added.  This
     allows both schroot and sudo chroot access to be modified to run
     apt/dpkg on the host system.  Note that schroot needs sudo to run
     commands as root on the host system.

  4) Deprecated commands from /usr/lib/sbuild have been removed.
     Please use the sbuild-* replacements found in /usr/bin.

  5) The maintainer name defaults to DEBEMAIL if set in the
     environment, so no longer needs setting explicitly in .sbuildrc.

  6) Unless configured as a buildd ($sbuild_mode), when using sudo
     chroot access, chroots are searched for in /etc/sbuild/chroots.
     This directory should contain symlinks to the chroots, with the
     distribution name being the name of the symlink.  Buildd mode
     will continue to use the old method of current-$distribution
     symlinks in the current directory.

  7) The log format used for build logs has been updated to use a more
     readable format, and is now encoded in UTF-8 rather than
     US-ASCII.  Code which parses the log file may need to be updated
     to handle the new format.  Further log format changes made in the
     future.

  8) All commands now have a corresponding manual page.

  9) The wanna-build configuration has moved from
     /etc/wanna-build/wanna-build.conf into /etc/sbuild/sbuild.conf as
     part of ongoing refactoring work.  It is expected that this will
     be split into a separate file in the future once this work is
     completed.

  10) wanna-build can now correctly dump and restore its databases
      using the --export and --import options.  Note that
      wanna-build-catmldbm and related commands can not correctly dump
      the current database format, can not be used to restore the dump
      and will be removed in the future.

  11) The wanna-build commands do-merge-packages and do-merge-quinn
      have been renamed to wanna-build-merge-packages and
      wanna-build-merge-quinn.

  12) wanna-build changes from the official Debian wanna-build
      installation have been merged.

  13) Initial support for a wanna-build PostgreSQL backend backend has
      been added, but is not currently functional.  The database
      schema is also included, but not yet finalised.

* Major changes in 0.57.5:

  1) sbuild-createchroot now supports most of the options found in
     debootstrap.  It no longer adds main and contrib to
     /etc/apt/sources.list in the chroot (the components are now
     specified with --components instead of being hard-coded).

  2) All sbuild commands now support --help and --version options.

  3) sbuild-abort and sbuild have been updated to work with the
     current dpkg-buildpackage and handle build termination
     gracefully.

* Major changes in 0.57.4:

  None.

* Major changes in 0.57.3:

  None.

* Major changes in 0.57.2:

  1) The new dpkg source format is now supported.

  2) The chroot to build in may be specified independently of the
     distribution.

  3) Purging of files in the chroot has been made more reliable, by
     putting all of the build files in a single temporary directory
     which is purged after the build completes.

  4) $mailto no longer needs setting in .sbuildrc if not running as a
     buildd.

  5) An option to always update the APT package list has been added
     ($apt_update in sbuild.conf).

  6) wanna-build, the database used to track which packages need
     rebuilding, has been added as a separate package.

* Major changes in 0.57.1:

  1) While not used in the Debian packaging, the buildd and
     wanna-build sources have been merged from the separate buildd.git
     repository.  They will be built as packages in a future release.

  2) Helper scripts in the Debian package have been moved from
     /usr/lib/sbuild back to /usr/share/sbuild, where they were
     located prior to 0.57.0.

  3) schroot "directory" type chroots are now purged correctly
     following a package build.

* Major changes in 0.57.0:

  1) All programs have been moved from /usr/share/sbuild to /usr/bin
     (with the exception of dobuildlog), with an sbuild- prefix.  In
     some cases, the names have been changed.  The older programs are
     still available under /usr/lib/sbuild.

  2) All programs (with the exception of dobuildlog) now have manual
     pages.

  3) sbuild now runs apt-get with APT::Install-Recommends set to
     false.

  4) sbuild can be optionally configured to use an alternative
     algorithm to compute build dependencies, to allow installation of
     alternative build dependencies.

  5) sbuild-createchroot (formerly buildd.chroot) now creates a fully
     working chroot, with no manual setup required other than adding
     the schroot configuration.
